passage:
The Great Pyramid, a 4,500-year-old stone tomb built for an ancient Egyptian king, contains chambers, which were rooms in which the body of the king and ceremonial objects could be placed. In addition to these chambers, the pyramid also contains four shafts narrow tunnels that were created in the solid stone structure as it was being built (see illustration). These shafts rise from two burial chambers and lead toward the outside of the pyramid. The four shafts are too small and placed at too steep an angle for a person to pass through them. The purpose of the shafts in the Great Pyramid is not certain, but archaeologists have several theories.

One theory is that the shafts were used for ventilation to bring fresh air from outside into the pyramid. During its construction, many workers labored inside the pyramid's interior chambers, and they may have had difficulty breathing, especially because the fires they used to light their work space would have produced smoke. The shafts may have been constructed to make it easier for workers to breathe.

A second theory is that the shafts were deliberately positioned in relation to stars. Scientists studying the pyramid have found that its shafts align with the positions of certain stars in the sky. At certain times in ancient Egyptian history, stars played an important role in religion; specific stars were associated with particular gods. The shafts in the king's tomb might have been built in alignment with specific stars for religious reasons.

A third theory is that the shafts were intended as passageways to help the king's spirit enter the afterlife. Ancient Egyptians believed that the king's spirit would leave his body and travel to the afterlife. The ancient builders may have built the shafts as openings for the king's spirit to pass through.

lecture:
    just check the site

my writing:
    The lecture was mainly about the problematic theories regarding the two pairs of shafts located in the Great Pyramid. The professor talks about how the theories mentioned in the passage don't add up. 
    The first theory of the passage is that the shafts were made for the easier breathing of slaves who constructed the chambers. Since the fire used to light the surrounding area of the construction site created smoke, the fresh air that the shafts provided helped keep the fire burning and the slaves breathing. However, the lecturer mentions how some facts about the shaft contradict this theory. For example, the fact that 2 of the four respective shafts, the lower chamber shafts, don't even reach the surface and thus can't really provide air, and since the four shafts should probably be made for the same reason, it wouldn't make sense if 2 of them don't really act their part. 
    The second theory mentioned by the passage is that in ancient Egypt, certain stars were related to certain gods. Since the four shafts are somewhat aligned with the stars, the Egyptians were paying some kind of tribute to the gods by aligning the passageways with the respective stars. However, this theory is also rejected by the lecturer since the pyramids were built in earlier years of Egyptian history, and the specific gods were recognized by the specific stars later in the history of Egypt. 
    The last theory of the passage brings up the ancient belief that the king's spirit used the shafts as a passageway to go through. However, the lecturer also deems this theory irrelevant because, in other pyramids made at that time, the passageways were much more symbolic, and a shaft was not necessary. The lecture mentions that the ancient Egyptians didn't necessarily believe that a passageway was needed for the spirit to go through.