Even thought i appriciate John's points, I personally find the reasoning of Claire more wise and sound. Moreover, The rervoke of the mandatory helmet-wearing rule can have many catastrophic outcomes. This law promotes the use of helmets which protect the cyclists and provides safety for the brain in case of accidents. Helmets are also an important gear for this form of transportation, which means manufacturers usually incorporate the use of fluroescent colors in their production for a better visibility of cyclists at night time. Removing the helmet is not only removing a safety gear but also equivalent to putting the cyclist in new dangers, since they wont be as visible for other vehicle's drivers. Plus, by removing the helmet-wearing rule we are teaching the newer generation a wrong perspective on life and safety. When my father first taught me how to cycle the first phrase he said was "The helmet is a must" and I can imagine kids nowdays, just ignoring this because the authority just deemed it too cumbersome. We should instead encourage the use of helmets and teach it as a first and necessary step of cycling thus rendering it a habit for newer cyclists. Furthermore, I dont agree with John's opinion on people's freedom being limited by the use of the helmet. The helmet is in itself an accessory that cyclist can chose with their own preference in mind. Cyclists can match their outfits with the color or style of the helmet and this is a show of their own form of self-expression. This can be seen in countries like Japan, where cycling is the default form of transportation used by most of students. Students buy helmets with a similar color pallette to that of their school uniform. Another example is how teenegers choose helmets with cat or dog ears to appear more modern and fashionable. 