The lecturer presents solutions to the problems that  the author mentions in the passage. She does this by providing clear examples on how this solutions were employed and how the result benifited the black robin species.
The first  problem mentioned by the passage is the low defensive ability of the black robins. The author belives this can be a consequence of lack of predators in their habitat through out their evolution history. The lecturer states how this challenge was solved with the help of the government. The authority found two islands in New Zealand that were devoid of any predators like cats since they had gone extint in these islands because of natual reasons. They moved the remaining black robins to one of these islands which was an easily achivabel task because of the small number of black robins left. They also put up rules about keeping people from introducing predators like cats to the newly stablished habitat. With the help of this law and the government's monitoring, a rise in the population of this specie was seen. Fortunetlly, this number increased to the point where the government saw fit to move some of these animals to the second island. 
The second challenge the passage provides is the problematic diet of this animals and how the shortage of this food source in the different seasons impacts the health of this specie. The lecturer also provides information about how this problem was solved with the direct help of humans delivering food to the black robins. The lecturer also mentions,  since the robins were not afraid of human interaction this was a fitting solution. She also provides an example of how this animals were trained to identify the human's hand clapping by the use of reinforcement learning and this led to humans finding the nests of this animals which in turn, helped better food delivery.
At last the author states how the low rate of reproduction is a big stone in the path of this specie's increase in population. Specially, since at a point., only a single fertile female was left, rendering the hopes for this species survival very low. The lecturer informs how this problem was also solved with the use of science. Scientists found out they could increase the reproduction rate if they moved out the eggs of the black robins and made them think, these eggs were lost, resulting in them laying a second batch of eggs. The presumably lost eggs were put in different spicie's nests and taken care of by another spicies of birds. 
This is how the challenges the author numbered were overcomed and with the help of humans, this species survived despite its low porabblity.